Using dataflake.docbuilder
==========================

:mod:`dataflake.docbuilder` can be used in two ways. It defines a 
:term:`Setuptools` entry point called ``docbuilder``, which automatically 
creates a shell script ``docbuilder`` when the package is installed 
through :term:`Setuptools`. If you are using :term:`zc.buildout`, you 
can use the package directly as a ``recipe`` and configure the 
documentation builder within your buildout configuration file.

.. warning::

   When the documentation build scripts build the `Sphinx` documentation, 
   the downloaded packages are not fully installed. They only have 
   their EGG-INFO structures created and are then added to ``sys.path`` 
   for the time it takes to run the `Sphinx` builder so they can be 
   imported. That means their dependencies are not installed 
   automatically. If there are dependencies that must be available 
   before the package can be imported or before the `Sphinx` 
   documentation can be built (such as third-party `Sphinx` extensions) 
   you must make them available yourself. How to do so is shown below.

From :term:`Setuptools`
-----------------------

After installing :mod:`dataflake.docbuilder` using :term:`Setuptools`,
a shell script named ``docbuilder`` is created. This can be used to 
invoke the documentation build process and accepts several options, 
which you can discover yourself by running ``docbuilder -h`` or 
``docbuilder --help``:

* ``-s <URLS>`` or ``--source=<URLS>``: This `mandatory` parameter, 
  which can be given multiple times, contains an URL to a package's 
  location in a software version control repository. You can prefix 
  the URL with information about the revision control server used, 
  if no prefix is given, :term:`Subversion` is assumed::
  
    [hg]https://myserver/hg/mypackage
    [svn]https://myserver/svn/mypackage
    https://myserver/svn/myotherpackage

* ``-g <GROUP>`` or ``--grouping=<GROUP>``: You can group packages 
  into groups to set them apart in the HTML output. A GROUP element
  consists of the package name and the group name, separated by 
  a colon (":") character. Example: `dataflake.docbuilder:dataflake`.

* ``-w <PATH>`` or ``--working-directory=<PATH>``: The ``docbuilder`` 
  script will check out the packages and run the documentation build 
  process in this folder. This parameter is `mandatory` as well.

* ``-o <PATH>`` or ``--output-directory=<PATH>``: This is where the 
  folder tree for the HTML output is stored, which links back into 
  the build tree defined by the ``working-directory`` parameter. If 
  it is not specified, the HTML output tree will end up in a folder 
  named `html` inside the ``working-directory``.

* ``-t`` or ``--trunk-only``: This flag is unset by default, which 
  means the documentation is built for the current development trunk 
  as well as all version tags from the version tags folder for your 
  package in :term:`Subversion`. If you set this flag only documentation 
  from the development trunk will be built.

* ``--index-template=<PATH>``: This optional parameter contains a 
  filesystem path to a folder containing a `Sphinx` configuration and 
  templates/static files. If you provide such a path 
  :mod:`dataflake.docbuilder` will use it to build additional content 
  for the ``output-directory`` folder and auto-generate an index file. 
  Please note: This folder must not contain an ``index.rst`` document, 
  as the index file will be auto-generated during the documentation 
  build process. You can optionally provide a template named 
  ``index.rst.in`` in the ``index-template`` folder, which will have 
  the autogenerated package list appended at the end.

* ``--index-name=<NAME>``: The file name, sans extension, for the 
  index file. A ReST source file ``<NAME>.rst`` will be created 
  containing links to the documented packages, and `Sphinx` will 
  compile it to the final ``<NAME>.html`` output.

* ``--fallback-css=<PATH>``: Optional path to a CSS file used for
  styling converted ReST output generated from the :term:`setuptools`
  ``long_description`` package option. The ``long_description`` value 
  is used as a fallback if no full Sphinx documentation can be found.

* ``--docs-directory=<NAME>``: The folder name inside your software 
  package checkout where `Sphinx` documentation is stored. By 
  default, the folders `doc` and `docs` are searched. You can use this 
  parameter multiple times to add other folder names to the default list.

* ``--trunk-directory=<NAME>``: The folder name inside your package's 
  revision control location where the most current development happens.
  By default a name of `trunk` is used. This parameter is only relevant 
  for :term:`Subversion` repositories.

* ``--tags-directory=<NAME>``: The folder name inside your package's 
  revision control location where version tags are stored. By default
  a name of `tags` is used. This parameter is only relevant for 
  :term:`Subversion` repositories.

* ``--z3csphinx-output-directory=<PATH>``: If you generate some 
  documentation via :mod:`z3c.recipe.sphinxdoc` and want to stitch 
  links to it into the generated index file, you can provide the 
  path to the :mod:`z3c.recipe.sphinxdoc` root folder for its 
  generated docs here.

* ``-h`` or ``--help``: Show the help text.

If the package to be documented or its `Sphinx` documentation 
configuration needs additional packages to be imported and run, you 
need to make them available yourself by e.g. using ``easy_install``.

From :term:`zc.buildout`
------------------------

In a :term:`zc.buildout` configuration file, the 
:mod:`dataflake.docbuilder` package can be used directly as a recipe.
The recipe will create a shell script that invokes the document 
build process with the options specified in the configuration stanza.
Here's a simple example::

  [buildout]
  parts = docbuilderdocs

  [docbuilderdocs]
  recipe = dataflake.docbuilder
  eggs =  
      repoze.sphinx.autointerface
  sources =
      http://svn.dataflake.org/svn/dataflake.docbuilder

This configuration will create a script named ``docbuilderdocs`` 
which builds the `Sphinx` documentation found in the 
:mod:`dataflake.docbuilder` trunk and all development tags.

The following keywords can be used with this recipe (documentation see
above):

* ``eggs``: If the package to be documented or its `Sphinx` 
  documentation configuration needs additional packages to be imported 
  and run, you need to list them here so they get pulled in 
  automatically.

* ``sources``: Equivalent to one or more ``--source`` parameters shown 
  above. Mandatory.

* ``groupings``: One or more ``--grouping`` parameters as shown above.

* ``working-directory``: The ``--working-directory`` parameter shown above.
  If none is specified, a default of 
  ``{buildout:directory}/parts/<SCRIPTNAME>`` is used.

* ``output-directory``: The ``--output-directory`` parameter shown above

* ``trunk-only``: The ``--trunk-only`` parameter shown above

* ``index-template``: The ``index-template`` parameter shown above

* ``index-name``: The ``--index-name`` parameter shown above

* ``fallback-css``: The ``--fallback-css`` parameter shown above

* ``docs-directory``: The ``--docs-directory`` parameter shown above

* ``trunk-directory``: The ``--trunk-directory`` parameter shown above

* ``tags-directory``: The ``--tags-directory`` parameter shown above

* ``z3csphinx-output-directory``: The ``--z3csphinx-output-directory``
  parameter shown above.

